hello everyone welcome to the ipfs core
implementations weekly sync for monday
then the 16th of november 2020.
i am making brain i will be your host
we're going to play the game of high
priority initiatives other initiatives
q a parking lot questions all that kind
of stuff
it's going to be great so without
further ado
uh let's talk about a high priority
initiative so the first thing to talk
about is upcoming ship releases
um they ship some jsopfs
stuff so we shipped a new http client
with a long-awaited uh patch from iraqi
uh to report progress uploads which is
great it's gonna make the web ui
well good um so that is out now hooray
um also some bugs with uh the message
for client around dependencies
um and hopefully that shouldn't happen
again in the future because we've shored
up
uh our ci around that
[Music]
that's from js life i see there's a go
live p2p
yep yes uh
the streams they've been refactored uh
yeah um people have been running into
foot guns every so often around the fact
that when you close a stream
it was only closing it for writing but
not for reading
uh close now closed for writing and
reading
which is a breaking change um we've also
removed the helper functions that
sort of did a background task that
waited for the stream to
have an eof sent to you because we don't
need that anymore because close will
close the read and write there is also
um improvements to connection gating
we had sort of the interfaces but now we
have an implementation that will allow
people who work in the pdp to better
control who can access their nodes
not in use in ipfs just yet but you know
perhaps perhaps coming soon
awesome next up
is the pinning services
yes so pinning services the uh
last week we're finishing up some
migration work and
throughout the weekend there's been uh
some
migration pains that need to be resolved
i think we're very close
but i'm going to see if the dean can
work with me to resolve those last
couple issues and it has to do
or this point uh with using a new versus
old version of go ipfs
that's linked into a migration code and
we might need to
change how we're we're doing a couple
things to get that
that working properly um so i have a
write-up on that we'll we'll be going
over and we may need to
make a few changes to how we do
migrations but we should be able to get
that done today
um other than that the pinning services
nothing
there's nothing new nothing uh that
since last week since we talked
uh i know there's been some activity
asking for these things on
some of the issues and
they're looking at waiting for this in
the next release i haven't responded to
any of the issues
comments but hopefully we can get this
in
that's all we have left is to make sure
the migrations are good
yes and related to that a once the
release is out
uh the the next high priority item will
likely be
making fs repo migrations like function
uh we've basically been skating by
since we switched away from gx to go mod
we haven't had to do anything that
seriously required any dependencies
um because it's just been editing a
config file uh
and now we finally did a thing that
required actually
having some understanding of the code
and bringing in dependencies and
everything kind of blew up
so this is uh we'll call it paying off
technical debt from the gx
gomod switch in retrospect it may have
actually been easier to do the work
moving forward this weekend as opposed
to trying to get it to work the old way
but um i'll need a second set of is we
can evaluate where we are right now
so we'll have an answer by the end of
the day uh either it's going to say it's
where a thumbs up or we know exactly
what we need to do to fix it
and then for the the rest of the pinning
services stuff uh
lidl has has done a bunch of work with
with petar
to kind of move this closer to the to
the finish line and actually get the
the cli and http api that we are going
to be stuck with
for a while uh ironed out
um looking pretty good any any comments
little pitar i think like the
main question remaining question is
should we block by default or not over
the weekend i
leaned toward blocking by default
like andrew convinced me
why that's probably a better default um
so probably we'll experiment with that
this week uh we if we do that we will
need to add a
flag which for for reporting progress
similar to
the old pin add command when you pin
you can pass progress which prints you
how many like notes you've been locally
that makes sense locally but if you peed
remotely
we don't have that deep insight so we at
least will
provide user some information about
request id and
when the last time status was updated or
something and i think that should be
enough for
mvp we can always improve that in the
future
just for for added context for those not
following super closely
uh when you currently you know when you
do ipves
pin add a thing it blocks until you've
downloaded the whole
dag um that's not gonna
that's not how sort of the remote
pinning is gonna work you're not sort of
waiting on this http connection until
the thing is finished being downloaded
by the service you just tell them please
get it for me and then they go get it
so the question is you might want to
pull until they're done so that you know
when it's done but should that be the
default behavior or not
and then how we map that into the fact
that we're going to be pulling the same
api to be sort of the new local pinning
api and we'd like those things to look
the same
because it would be weird if you were uh
if if ibms pin you know pin uh
remote add was not blocking but if this
pin local ad was blocking that would be
pretty confusing for people
i guess i'll just do the next one which
is secio removal uh
yeah i i pinged i ping michael i think
today's the day for
uh turning off secio for a little bit
and seeing if everyone freaks out
or if nothing changes hopefully the
latter
incredible that's the second year
next up is js improves discoverability
and connectivity
yes so uh the custom announced
multi-other function that i had
previously done is now merged after the
review
i also got reviews for the auto relay
example in the
dial multi-other custom start function
last week that i will already also
address and i think they should be
ready to go now as jacob only point out
now some minor things left uh
then i i worked on the discover and
connect
to the closest peers feature uh i think
it's also
uh 10 and it will neither the review
uh and yeah so far this week my main
focus will be
on the rendezvous work i will start by
addressing
jacob's review on the implementation of
the protocol
and then i will do some benchmarking and
also
if i have the time start working on the
example
that's it
noise uh next up is bi-directional
streaming and streaming errors in the
browser
so i added tests that prove
that the streaming is bi-directional and
the errors work which is um which is
great
it's a massive improvement um i'm gonna
try and
like so the only thing that's the only
thing that's using this at the moment is
add um and i would like to get a like an
experimental release out by the end of
next week
so people can start playing with it and
we can gather some feedback
and that kind of thing um so i'm gonna
just tidy up around the documentation
and like making sure we're using the
right library and and that kind of thing
because
um it's a bit weird
at the moment uh using different grpc
uh libraries on the server and the
client um which is great interrupt
right um but it's just yeah
like different paradigms either and um
so that needs to be
looked at yeah good good
uh that is the end of the high priority
initiative
uh next up is the other initiatives so
improving the web ui file ad
from miracle who is having some problems
with his internet connection
uh yeah uh thanks alex for shipping the
progressing uh it's finally landed new
hooray
so now we can integrate into the web ui
it should be
quick i'm hoping by next week we should
have it in
sweet um you're up again next for
typescript integration for geoscience uh
those updates were not from me so
oh maybe somebody else did it a new
a new typescript challenger has entered
the ring
yeah so i started working on
the typescript the type definitions for
the little bit big core codeways
and basically i'm not pending on
google's update
so that i can update ig and
start getting types in uh liberty
okay so yeah uh a pull request is up on
the ag
repo basically to add support for
um type checking not so much as
the full typescript environment we have
another
uh like global flag just to enable
typescript support in other places this
is more
for or more specific for type checking
generating documentation documentation
from the the
type declarations that that are
generated
uh and all those use cases around it so
yeah please review and give some
feedback
um i'm testing it on the js
ipfs repo everything seems to work
we already had like the typescript
config there
so checking was already working this is
basically just
getting everything into azure so we can
use it everywhere
the documentation part on the js ipfs
repo is going to be a little bit
harder but we'll get there
amazing very exciting uh next up is use
of shared node from service worker
uh i guess that's me again um
yeah so we have a pull request that i
don't think has landed yet but it adds
an example
and that's pretty much extent of it
oh um i will get to that uh i think it
was
it was like pretty much all there um so
that will land imminently
uh next stops budget two support
uh nothing to report it's uh just
waiting to see if they
are going to do a release
so just waiting on badger that's all
don't call us we'll call you when
there's uh
they having a decision i guess
oh dear okay next up not traversal
yeah so this week and for the last week
arches is working on the easily stun
hardening um so there's some
incongruities that we've noticed between
autonat and
kind of observed addresses being shared
so right now he's working on
improving that so that we're advertising
the correct public addresses
because we will need that to leverage
autonet
for for sun coordination
cool next up is a unix fsv 1.5 and go
ipvs
um i don't think there's been any
movement on this since last week and
there's some
else's notes on them no i think the
contributor is still
still doing some stuff uh i i need to
give some reviews
cool next is go ipfs
gc improvements
all right after uh testing at scale last
week i needed to make some change to the
design
those were supposed to be out on friday
but those got
pushed back due to the work i'm doing
with the migrations for the pinning
so as soon as i can get to the
migrations i will be able to
finish off the change the design and get
that design work
pushed out to people to review
uh that was the end of the other
initiatives um
so moving on to the other business uh
design review proposals
anybody got anything to propose
for review
okay blockers and asks anyone blocked
anyone can ask
anyone got any questions i guess
i'm just i'm just like looking over some
stuff that andrew sent me over the
weekend this
this refund migration stuff could be
could be pretty gross
um i suspect we're gonna we can make
some
some solid progress but i there may be
some hairy things that pop up here
due to us i think a number of changes in
the migration process that we haven't
done before uh we support both like
level db and badger by by default now
right there's all sorts of plug-ins for
the data store
we're using go mod like there's there's
lots of new things i think that are
coming up in this migration that we just
haven't had to deal with before but uh
now is the time
so i guess just putting that out there
as a heads up this may take longer than
than expected you read the horrible
thing i did i tried
yes okay
the js replay migration tool is
similarly hairy uh not wanting to do
things like
create a whole copy of a repo because it
could be enormous
and what do you do if you fail halfway
through like
moving backwards and forwards between
the things and just keep running it
until
you've got nothing else to migrate
you're like oh i'm done
what fun anyway
uh i got a question
uh so regarding the
pinning services or the http client
support for
pinning services uh
who's gonna take that i think gonzalez
started
working on it but then
uh me jacob and alex talked about
me taking on that so
what should be
yes so i don't know i i started looking
at it on friday
uh if you want to take it i'm happy to
let you but i can also
work on it i think there's also a few
things that
could be paralyzed if you want to go
that way
given that it will like so uh
maybe i'll just lead to the next item
that i had to the parking lot because
they're
pretty much the same so we will have to
figure out the way how we can land all
the pieces
uh and given that we seem to want to
land it in one lump
uh so problem is that
to test it we need some sort of uh we
need to go ipfs to test against
and then we also need a some pinning
service to run it again
to like pair it with and test it with
there's a ruby implementation but it
seems like will be
very complicated to try to get the
running all on ci
so i think a better approach would be to
write a simple ser
like a echo server that we already have
or something along those lines
uh to do it um
yeah and then
trying to land go ipfs and also lend the
client and also run
blend the tests and all do it together
seems like
i i don't really know how we can pull it
off
including web ui i made this piece
so i think maybe we should have a
conversation how we can do
gradually and maybe i don't know the
things me and lyle talked about maybe we
can have a flag in http clients that you
can opt into
and we can land certain patches that are
not tested yet
so we can ship the go ipfs with the web
ui that uses it and then once it's
in then we can add the tests to test
again that
uh i know maybe there are some other
options that we can maybe we can have a
like next release of uh
http client and then only ship it once
the gold ships but yeah i don't know
let's figure out how to do it and in
terms of parallelization
we can split it up into like as i
mentioned we need to do the server into
the other pieces maybe we can
do it together so we don't have to wait
on each other or like not one person has
to do it seriously
yeah cool i reckon one question uh
little can't we generate a mock server
from the spec
i mean we can generate most of the mock
server
you still need to wire it up to actually
prepare the response it will take care
of
the wire format you can generate it's in
javascript i think
there should not be a problem uh
we we generated both server and client
for go i believe
uh as a test and we actually use the
client in go ipfs so
generation works pretty well with open
api
yeah so and and if we have uh that
lighter version then because for the
context right now we got this ruby uh
uh app created by andrew nesbit
but that's like postgres red is uh
ruby on rails it's not something you
want to run on the ci
uh instead we if we have this lighter uh
echo for echo like service we could even
switch go ipfs to that
and that would solve a bunch of problems
we got there as well
yeah although it's probably not that big
a deal but note that one of the things
that we are testing by using like sort
of the full thing
is that uh it's also testing that it
triggers the data transfer
and all of that like the trip but but
all those transitions are mockable
so um yeah
uh yeah yeah but the data transfer
we wouldn't auto generate from this
backpack because it's limited
yeah so i'm saying you wouldn't be able
to auto generate that but also
maybe it doesn't really matter at least
for the http
for like the js http client it probably
doesn't matter
it would be more when you did the js
ipfs implementation that it would matter
yeah right so like go ipfs might still
be stuck with the other one because it
wants to
check the data transfer also and jsipfs
might also want that but for the client
for the http clients
like you can smock it right because it's
not their job
to do the p2p things yeah and even in
jsfs we have
other ways to to test it like we have
control of all the nodes and we can
just see if stuff is everywhere
um yeah cool
um yeah so do we need another session or
do we need to
can we figure out how are we going to
ship
all this maybe together maybe we just we
have a
a a call between us two and figure it
out
okay i'll organize a call then
and uh yeah maybe you can put your name
under the
parking lot item so i know who to invite
too
yep
why is it always jumping
yeah if you don't put your cursor where
you want to be it will jump on you
okay cool thanks
cool i think that i think that might be
it is there any
any other business anything else anyone
wants to talk about
speak now if i ever hold your peace
okay great thanks for coming everyone
that has been the ipfs
core implementations weekly sync from
monday the 16th of november
please remember to fill in your async
updates people do read them and it's
very exciting to know
what's happening and what everyone's
working on thank you very much everyone
we'll see you next week
bye